# Weekly Meeting on 2021-03-27
This weekly meeting was attended by:

- @slightknack
- @hhhapz
- chanbakjsd#7968

These notes were taken by [Isaac Clayton](https://slightknack.dev).

## Topics of Discussion
Today we planned to discuss:

- type unification
- tagless final interpreters
- module system
- might discuss redoing passerine's website 
- adding a package registry

## Outline
Here are the topics we discussed today. There might've been more, but I took these notes after-the-fact. In the future, we'll designate someone to take them.

### Package Registry
- Passerine currently does not have a package registry and needs one
- We would like registeries to be flexible
- The proposal is as follows:
  - A registry is a git repository full of package metadata a la crates.io.
  - Metadata would be json, including package name, package version, and package git URL.
  - You can point `aspen` at a registry to pull dependencies from it. There is a default public registry, but private ones can be created as well.
  - Dependencies are specified in `Aspen.toml`, and are in the context of a registry.
  - An open-source web interface exists that people can explore registeries. The default one would be at `aspen.passerine.io`.
- Drawbacks:
  - This is all tied to git, so if new version control tools become viable, like pijul, Passerine is left in the dust.
  - There is no namespacing, and it's first-come-first served, which is a bit of a problem:
    - We could implement authentication, but that would require something more complex
    - We could require people to include a small POW when publishing packages, to avoid spam. This is not a blockchain! This does not solve the namespacing issue either.
    - We could tie the registry to a specific service, like github, and use it's authentication. This is bad because it ties us to github as well as git.
  - How do private regesteries really work? What makes sure they're private:
    - Basically if you have git read access to the private registry, you can pull from it.
    - Because the web interface is open-source, private orgs can host their own private registeries with custom auth.

### Type Unification
- Passerine has type unification
- Discussion of constraits and constraint solving in HM
- Discussion of how constraints could be applied to passerine
- Discussion of variable renaming and hoisting.

### Module System
- A module is basically a struct that can potentially be defined in another file
- Modules are resolved by checking in `module_name.pn` and `module_name/mod.pn`. One or the other has to be defined, not both.
- Modules are resolved at compile time rather than runtime.

### (Unrelated) Drop-in-FBA
- A stellar consensus protocol implementation in Rust.
- Discussion of quorum slices, blocking sets, etc.
- Really interesting discussion.

### (Unrelated) Lithium
- A programming language hamza and chan are working on.
- Under wraps, so not at liberty to discuss more here.
- Basically a nicer version of Go that fixes its warts (Enums, Garbage Collector, etc.), compiles to x64 linux.
- Discussion of parsing strategies; walk through of Passerine's pratt parser.
- Discussion of compile-time garbage-collection strategies; Perceus, ASAP, Vaporization, etc.
- Anything other than trivial memory management is turing complete by definition, therefore it's impossible to manage memory perfectly at compile time - something must always be deffered to runtime. By moving these special cases to unidiomatic code, however, we can take advantage of comp-time memory managent with minimal sacrifice.

### (Unrelated) Kitbag
- The Veritble Computation Initiative is a collection of open-source tools.
- Passerine is a part of Veritable
- As is kitbag, Another project I'm working on.
- Kitbag is a distributed data-synchronization and collaboration protocol, which is transport-layer agnostic. Can work over tcp, https, email (lol), etc.
- Works similar to hypercore, but uses the concepts of diffs for efficient compression, and by default supports multiple writers.
- Solidarity is a program built on top of kitbag that allows people to implement arbitrary applications 
- Adoption:
  - The goal is to create an ecosystem of tools that all reinforce each other.
  - By adpoting one tool, people are exposed to the others, but not forced to use them. In the context of passerine, it'll be possible to use kitbag with passerine, but not required.
- Veritable and Kitbag are still a ways off, need to build a comprehensive plan before we commit to anything.
