# Weekly Meeting on 2021-04-03
This weekly meeting was attended by:

- @slightknack
- @siraben
- Shaw Summa (4984#4984)

These notes were taken by [Isaac Clayton](https://slightknack.dev).

## Topics of Discussion
Today we planned to discuss:

- Recent Passerine and Aspen Releases
- Passerine path moving forwards:
  - typeckecking
  - module system
- website?

## Outline
This was a shorter meeting, about 50 minutes long. We didn't get to everything, but we discussed a few interersting topics.

### Linear/Granular types
- Granule.
- Rust borrow checking is like special case of linear types over stack and heap.
- (Bounded Linear Types in a Resource Semiring)[https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/191237085.pdf].

### HTKs, TTFIs, and Polymorphism
- Row polymorphism and higher kinded types.
- Parser combinators [see also](https://bodil.lol/parser-combinators/).
- Rust's (higher)[https://crates.io/crates/higher] crate for HTKs.
- Using HTKs to implement typed TTFIs.
- Haskell is generally a great language for prototyping advanced language features.

### Passerine's Type System
- Discussion of structural typing:
  - i.e. Base algebraic data types that can be destructured.
  - destructuring mirrors construction
  - Patterns are basically types
  - Labels, i.e. named types, introduce a mechanism to disambiguiate similarly structured types.
- Records and modules:
  - A record is like a struct, basically.
  - Row polymorphism: If a record A is a superset of record B, record A is of type B.
  - A module is a block of code that becomes a record, where top-level variables become fields in it.
- A label carries an associated record:
  - `::` is indexing, `foo::bar` is field foo on bar, for example.
  - `type Label <pattern>` defines a type
  - if `x` is a `Label`:
    - `x::a` is field `a` on `x`.
    - `Label::b` is field `b` on `Label`.
    - `x::b` is field `b` on `Label` if `b` is not a field on `x`.

### How associated records implement trait systems
- Passerine is row polymorphic
- we can define a type with fields as a set of functions:
  ```
  type Number { add: A A -> A, sub: A A -> A, ... }
  ```
- if a `Label` has associated fields that match the record, then `Label` is `Number`
- this can be used to implement interfaces.
- Open Question: how to indicate generics?
- Open Question: how to implement associated fields?
  - define directly: 
    - set fields: `Label::field = value`
    - or use modules: `Label = mod { field = value ... }`
    - or use structs: `Label = { field: value, ... }
  - use something like `impl`:
    - do traits need to be explicitly implemented, or more like go interfaces?
    - is `impl` a macro or a keyword?
    - can Labels be `impl`d multiple times?

### Rust's Type System:
- `structs` are product types, set of fields
- `tuples` are basicaly structs, indexed by number
- `enums` are sum types, a set of variants
- `variants` can carry associated data
- `traits` are a set of functions a type must implement
- if a type implements a trait, we can use that type as that trait
- we can generalize traits (and associated methods) to be records on labels

### Walking through the TTFI experiment
- [Repo is here](github.com/slightknack/ttfi)
- Basically, we define a trait that describes a structure:
  ```rust
  trait SyntaxTree { fn add(...) -> ... }
  ```
- We can implement this trait to compile to bytecode, and run it on a small VM
- Say we want to implement subtraction, without touching `SyntaxTree` or the VM.
  - We can define a new trait:
    ```rust
    trait Sub { fn sub(...) -> ... }
    ```
  - And implement it in terms of ST:
    ```rust
    impl<T: ST> Sub for T { ... }
    ```
  - Boom! subtraction magically works with existing VM and ST.
- We can implement this trait to write out the representation to a string, and just by changing the type signature, write out a prettified string.
- This never builds intermediate representations of syntax trees
- We can use this to write a parser as well
- If we hook up this parser to the final step, we basically get a 'single pass compiler' in the sense that we never define any explicit intermediate representations.
- Idea can be taken a lot further - in languages with HKTs, we can implement typed syntax trees.

### Optimizing value representations - Shaw Summa (4984#4984)
- Shaw's working on optimizing value representations in a VM he's developing, which may end up being a JIT.
- By reducing the outward facing representations of code, he can ensure that the VM is a lot faster.
