# Weekly Meeting on 2021-06-12
This weekly meeting was attended by:

- @slightknack
- @ShawSumma
- 

These notes were taken by [Isaac Clayton](https://slightknack.dev).

## Topics of Discussion
Today we planned to discuss:

- General Passerine Stuff
- FFI
- Implementation

## Outline
Today was fairly informal.

### How the parser works
- It's a pratt parser
- Discussion of operator precedence

### How the FFI works
- Set of Rust functions that we compile against

### Some patches and so on
- Implemented `**` with Shaw for exponentiation
- Implemented `-` negation

### Mod and Rem
- Should we use `%` to represent euclidean remainder?
