# Weekly Meeting on 2021-04-17
This weekly meeting was attended by:

- @ShawSumma
- @slightknack
- @siraben
- @Plecra

These notes were taken by [Isaac Clayton](https://github.com/slightknack).

## Topics of Discussion
Today we planned to discuss:

1. A presentation about adding types, traits, and algebraic effects to Passerine. 
2. A live demonstration of @Shaw Summa's work on an alternative implementation of Passerine!
3. Afterwards, we'll have some general discussion, etc.

[Slides can be found here](https://github.com/vrtbl/meta/blob/master/weekly-meetings/2021-04-17.pdf).

## Outline
### Presentation
- See the slideshow (linked above) for more detail
- Note: we started, got about halfway through, went off-topic, then finished towards the end.
- Basically discussed:
  - ADTs
  - Polymorphism
  - Traits
  - Algebraic effects

### Alternative Type Declarations
Right now, the type declaration syntax is something along the lines of:

```
type Name <definition>
```

This is ok, but it makes it awkward to do associated methods:

```
type Name <definition>

-- seems arbitrary
impl Name {
    field = value
}

-- as well
Name::field = value
```

@Plecra suggested we do something along the lines of zig:

```
Name = type <definition>

And then, for types with associated values:
Name = type <definition> impl {
    ...
}
```

The type names would be hoisted, so to write a method that references self:

```
Person = type { 
    name: String 
    age:  Natural
} impl {
    new = name -> Person { name: name, age: 0 }

    change_name = (
        self: Person -- we can refer to Person here
        new_name
    ) -> {
        self.update { name: value new_name, .. }
    }

    -- and so on ...
}
```

This doesn't answer the question of interfaces, but it's a good start. Multiple dispatch would be nice, but because all functions are anonymous, defining a new function with the same name would result in an error or just overwriting the previous question. Multiple dispatch also has the issue of only working in the context of functions, you can't say that a `Number`, for instance, is anything that implements `addition`, `subtraction`, etc. Julia gets around this with a class hierarchy; this is 'against the spirit' of Passerine.

General agreement that associated namespaces were a cool idea, but the issue is that:

- They do not resolve the diamond problem.
- They are implictly implemented, so you can't have finer-grained control.

Something like traits/typeclasses could be nice, but we need to adapt the syntax to Passerine if so.

We also discussed making module notation the default. Currently, we have `mod`:

```
Person = type { age: Natural, name: String }

child = Person mod {
    name = "John"
    age = 7
}
```

`mod` executes a scope and turns the local variables into fields in a struct. The idea is to make it so that this is the default behaviour, i.e. the `mod` keyword is no longer needed:

```
child = Person {
    name = "John"
    age = 7
}
```

While a bit shorter, it is most likely ambiguious with blocks, which return the value of the last expression. The above example is equivalent to `child = Person ()` (because `x = y` evaluates to `()`), which is a type error.

### Dreamcoder
At this point we looked at the following program, presented by @ShawSumma, that calculates 7 factorial: 

`print ((o -> ((n -> n (x -> x + o) o) ((n -> f -> x -> n (g -> h -> h (g f)) (u -> x) (u -> u)) ((a -> (f -> f f) (s -> n -> (b -> t -> f -> b t f) ((n -> n (u -> (x -> y -> y)) (x -> y -> x)) n) (u -> ((n -> f -> z -> f (n f z)) (f -> z -> z))) (u -> (n -> m -> f -> z -> n (m f) z) n (s s ((n -> f -> x -> n (g -> h -> h (g f)) (u -> x) (u -> u)) n) (x -> x)))) a (x -> x)) ((n -> f -> z -> f (n f z)) ((n -> f -> z -> f (n f z)) ((n -> f -> z -> f (n f z)) ((n -> f -> z -> f (n f z)) ((n -> f -> z -> f (n f z)) ((n -> f -> z -> f (n f z)) ((n -> f -> z -> f (n f z)) (f -> z -> z)))))))))))) 1)`

It uses church numerals, is entirely valid Passerine, and runs in about `2.5` seconds on my machine. Crazy!

This reminded me of DreamCoder, a program that synthesises programs written in lambda calculus using a machine-learning guided tree-search over a library of refactored concepts, i.e. functions. The thing is absolutely incredible and took more PhDs to write than anything else I've seen. We discussed the paper, you can find a copy of it [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.08381). (With supplemental material [here](https://web.mit.edu/ellisk/www/documents/dreamcoder_with_supplement.pdf)).

Give it a read!

### GPT
After discussing dreamcoder, we began to discuss the difference between symbolic and neural AI, and how this paper bridged that gap in a sense. @siraben also has access to GPT-3, so we discussed a[ conversation he had with it a while back](https://gist.github.com/siraben/9d899aa90509dbbc93c6439af3aa57c3). Crazy!

### Implementation and Benchmarking
@ShawSumma has been working on an [alternative implementation of Passerine](https://github.com/ShawSumma/purr/tree/main/ext/passerine), that runs on the purr VM. It's a lot faster than the Rust implementation of Passerine, largely because Shaw is a VM wizard. 

It works on just about all examples that are currently up, which is pretty cool. The CLI is pretty barebones, but all in all it's really nice work! He'll be presenting it, first thing, at next week's weekly meeting.

